File Handling in C

In programming, we may require some specific input data to be generated several numbers of times. 
Sometimes, it is not enough to only display the data on the console. The data to be displayed may be very large, and only a limited 
amount of data can be displayed on the console, and since the memory is volatile, it is impossible to recover the programmatically 
generated data again and again. However, if we need to do so, we may store it onto the local file system which is volatile and can be 
accessed every time. Here, comes the need of file handling in C.


File handling in C enables us to create, update, read, and delete the files stored on the local file system through our C program. 
The following operations can be performed on a file.

Creation of the new file
Opening an existing file
Reading from the file
Writing to the file
Deleting the file

The fopen function works in the following way.

Firstly, It searches the file to be opened.
Then, it loads the file from the disk and place it into the buffer. The buffer is used to provide efficiency for the read operations.
It sets up a character pointer which points to the first character of the file.

Reading File : fscanf() function
The fscanf() function is used to read set of characters from file. It reads a word from the file and returns EOF at the end of file.


Writing File : fprintf() function
The fprintf() function is used to write set of characters into file. It sends formatted output to a stream.

C fputc() and fgetc()
Writing File : fputc() function
The fputc() function is used to write a single character into file. It outputs a character to a stream.


Reading File : fgetc() function
The fgetc() function returns a single character from the file. It gets a character from the stream. It returns EOF at the end of file


C fputs() and fgets()
The fputs() and fgets() in C programming are used to write and read string from stream. 
Let's see examples of writing and reading file using fgets() and fgets() functions.

Writing File : fputs() function
The fputs() function writes a line of characters into file. It outputs string to a stream.

Reading File : fgets() function
The fgets() function reads a line of characters from file. It gets string from a stream.

C fseek() function
The fseek() function is used to set the file pointer to the specified offset. It is used to write data into file at desired location.


C rewind() function
The rewind() function sets the file pointer at the beginning of the stream. It is useful if you have to use stream many times.


C ftell() function---------------------------------

The ftell() function returns the current file position of the specified stream. We can use ftell() function to get the total size of a file 
after moving file pointer at the end of file. 
We can use SEEK_END constant to move the file pointer at the end of file.